Private key:
A private key is generally a lengthy, non-guessable sequence of bits created randomly or pseudo-randomly. The complexity and length of a private key define how easy it is for an attacker to carry out a bruteforce attack, in which they test out several keys until they find the appropriate one.The private key is used in both encryption as well as decryption. The private key is also called "symmetric" because it is shared by both parties.
https://cheapsslsecurity.com/p/wp-content/uploads/2019/08/private-key-encryption.png
Public key:
Asymmetric cryptography, often known as public-key cryptography, is a type of encryption that employs pairs of keys.A public key (which may be known to others) and a private key (which may not be known to anyone except the owner) make up each pair. Cryptographic techniques based on mathematical problems known as one-way functions are used to generate such key pairs.A public key (which may be known to others) and a private key (which may not be known to anyone except the owner) make up each pair. Cryptographic techniques based on mathematical problems known as one-way functions are used to generate such key pairs.In such a system, anybody can encrypt a message using the intended receiver's public key, but only the receiver's private key can decode the message.
https://cheapsslsecurity.com/p/wp-content/uploads/2019/08/public-key-encryption.png

Public key cryptography, in the context of SSL/TLS, is used for the actual communication portion of the connection. Each party derives the key during the handshake and then uses it to both encrypt and decrypt all data that’s transmitted between them.

Private key encryption, or symmetric encryption, uses smaller keys that are easier to compute with. These still provide adequate computational hardness, but don’t tax the client and server as much to use. Especially at scale, this is extremely important and the biggest advantage of symmetric encryption.
