The Total Probability Rule (also known as the Law of Total Probability) is a fundamental rule in statistics relating to conditional and marginal probabilities. The rule states that if the probability of an event is unknown, it can be calculated using the known probabilities of several distinct events.
https://www.statisticshowto.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/total-probability-rule.png
P(A ∩ B) = P(A | B) \* P(B) + P(A ∩ Bc) = P(A | Bc)P(Bc).
Where:
n – the number of events
Bn – the distinct event
https://cdn.corporatefinanceinstitute.com/assets/total-probability-rule2.png

Bayes, is a mathematical formula for determining conditional probability. Conditional probability is the likelihood of an outcome occurring, based on a previous outcome having occurred in similar circumstances. Bayes' theorem provides a way to revise existing predictions or theories (update probabilities) given new or additional evidence.

In finance, Bayes' Theorem can be used to rate the risk of lending money to potential borrowers. The theorem is also called Bayes' Rule or Bayes' Law and is the foundation of the field of Bayesian statistics.

- Bayes' Theorem allows you to update the predicted probabilities of an event by incorporating new information.
- It is often employed in finance in calculating or updating risk evaluation.
- The theorem has become a useful element in the implementation of machine learning.
- The theorem was unused for two centuries because of the high volume of calculation capacity required to execute its transactions.

P(A∣B) = P(A⋂B)/P(B) = P(A)⋅P(B∣A)/P(B)
Where:
P(A)= The probability of A occurring
P(B)= The probability of B occurring
P(A∣B)=The probability of A given B
P(B∣A)= The probability of B given A
P(A⋂B))= The probability of both A and B occurring
​
