The probability distribution corresponding to the density function for the bell curve with parameters μ and σ is called the normal distribution with mean μ and standard deviation σ.
A continuous random variable whose probabilities are described by the normal distribution with mean μ and standard deviation σ is called a normally distributed random variable, or a normal random variable for short, with mean μ and standard deviation σ.

In statistics, a normal distribution (also known as Gaussian, Gauss, or Laplace–Gauss distribution) is a type of continuous probability distribution for a real-valued random variable.
Normal distributions are important in statistics and are often used in the natural and social sciences to represent real-valued random variables whose distributions are not known. Their importance is partly due to the central limit theorem. It states that, under some conditions, the average of many samples (observations) of a random variable with finite mean and variance is itself a random variable—whose distribution converges to a normal distribution as the number of samples increases. Therefore, physical quantities that are expected to be the sum of many independent processes, such as measurement errors, often have distributions that are nearly normal.
Moreover, Gaussian distributions have some unique properties that are valuable in analytic studies. For instance, any linear combination of a fixed collection of normal deviates is a normal deviate. Many results and methods, such as propagation of uncertainty and least squares parameter fitting, can be derived analytically in explicit form when the relevant variables are normally distributed.
The simplest case of a normal distribution is known as the standard normal distribution or unit normal distribution. This is a special case when μ = 0 and σ = 1, and it is described by this probability density function (or density):
https://wikimedia.org/api/rest_v1/media/math/render/svg/001bacd5dd2d6034c8ec847dfa2ebfdfa9cf7f4e
