The process in which a function calls itself directly or indirectly is called recursion.When a function calls itself, this is called a recursion step. The recursion base are those function arguments that make the problem so simple that the solution requires no further nested calls.
Properties of Recursion:

Performing the same operations multiple times with different inputs.
In every step, we try smaller inputs to make the problem smaller.
Base condition is needed to stop the recursion otherwise infinite loop will occur.
PROS:
-Recursion can reduce time complexity.
-Recursion adds clarity and reduces the time needed to write and debug code.If you know your input into a function is going to be small, then recursion is certainly a good choice
-Recursion is better at tree traversal.
CONS:
-Recursion uses more memory. Because the function has to add to the stack with each recursive call and keep the values there until the call is finished, the memory allocation is greater than that of an iterative function.
-Recursion can be slow. If not implemented correctly (as stated above with memoization) it can be much slower than iteration. It is actually pretty difficult to write a recursive function where the speed and memory will be less than that of an iterative function completing the same task.The reason that recursion is slow is that it requires the allocation of a new stack frame.
function pow(x, n){
if (n == 1) {
return x;
} else {
return x \* pow(x, n - 1);
}
}

alert( pow(2, 3) ); // 8
