What is Semaphore?
Semaphore is simply a variable that is non-negative and shared between threads. A semaphore is a signaling mechanism, and a thread that is waiting on a semaphore can be signaled by another thread. It uses two atomic operations, 1) Wait, and 2) Signal for the process synchronization.
A semaphore either allows or disallows access to the resource, which depends on how it is set up.
The two common kinds of semaphores are
Counting semaphores.This type of Semaphore uses a count that helps task to be acquired or released numerous times. If the initial count = 0, the counting semaphore should be created in the unavailable state.
Binary semaphores.The binary semaphores are quite similar to counting semaphores, but their value is restricted to 0 and 1. In this type of semaphore, the wait operation works only if semaphore = 1, and the signal operation succeeds when semaphore= 0.

Mutex or Mutual Exclusion Object is used to give access to a resource to only one process at a time. The mutex object allows all the processes to use the same resource but at a time, only one process is allowed to use the resource. Mutex uses the lock-based technique to handle the critical section problem.Whenever a process requests for a resource from the system, then the system will create a mutex object with a unique name or ID. So, whenever the process wants to use that resource, then the process occupies a lock on the object. After locking, the process uses the resource and finally releases the mutex object. After that, other processes can create the mutex object in the same manner and use it.By locking the object, that particular resource is allocated to that particular process and no other process can take that resource. So, in the critical section, no other processes are allowed to use the shared resource. In this way, the process synchronization can be achieved with the help of a mutex object.

The critical section refers to the segment of code where processes access shared resources, such as common variables and files, and perform write operations on them. Since processes execute concurrently, any process can be interrupted mid-execution.

An event is an action or occurrence that is recognized by software, often originating asynchronously from the external environment, that can be handled by the software in programming and software design. The system can generate or trigger computer events, as well as the user.
