Main differences between RISC and CISC architecture are as follows:

1. CISC
   \*A large number of instructions are present in the architecture.
   \*Some instructions with long execution times. These include instructions that copy an entire block from one part of memory to another and others that copy multiple registers to and from memory.
   \*Variable-length encodings of the instructions.
   Example: IA32 instruction size can range from 1 to 15 bytes.
   \*Multiple formats are supported for specifying operands. A memory operand specifier can have many different combinations of displacement, base, and index register.
   \*Arithmetic and logical operations can be applied to both memory and register operands.
   \*CISC supports array.
   \*Implementation programs are hidden from machine-level programs. The ISA provides a clean abstraction between programs and how they get executed.
   \*Condition codes are used.
   \*The stack is being used for procedure arguments and returns addresses.
2. RISC:
   \*Very few instructions are present. The number of instructions is generally less than 100.
   \*No instruction with a long execution time due to a very simple instruction set. Some early RISC machines did not even have an integer multiply instruction, requiring compilers to implement multiplication as a sequence of additions.
   \*Variable-length encodings of the instructions.
   \*Fixed-length encodings of the instructions are used.
   Example: In IA32, generally all instructions are encoded as 4 bytes.
   \*Simple addressing formats are supported. Only base and displacement addressing is allowed.
   \*Arithmetic and logical operations only use register operands. Memory referencing is only allowed by loading and storing instructions, i.e. reading from memory into a register and writing from a register to memory respectively.
   \*RISC does not support an array.
   \*Implementation programs exposed to machine-level programs. Few RISC machines do not allow specific instruction sequences.
   \*No condition codes are used.
   \*Registers are being used for procedure arguments and return addresses. Memory references can be avoided by some procedures.

Main similarities between risc and cisc:
1 They are both unscientific, unmeasurable, and completely useless terms devised by tech scientists to sound cool and impress women.
2 They are spelled similarily
3 Processor companies brag about having each.
