1. Multiprocessor:
   A Multiprocessor is a computer system with two or more central processing units (CPUs) share full access to a common RAM. The main objective of using a multiprocessor is to boost the system’s execution speed, with other objectives being fault tolerance and application matching.
   There are two types of multiprocessors, one is called shared memory multiprocessor and another is distributed memory multiprocessor. In shared memory multiprocessors, all the CPUs shares the common memory but in a distributed memory multiprocessor, every CPU has its own private memory.
2. There are many types of multiprocessor systems:
   Loosely coupled multiprocessor system- In loosely-coupled multiprocessor systems, each processor has its own local memory, input/output (I/O) channels, and operating system. Processors exchange data over a high-speed communication network by sending messages via a technique known as "message passing". Loosely-coupled multiprocessor systems are also known as distributed-memory systems, as the processors do not share physical memory and have individual I/O channels.
   System characteristics
   These systems are able to perform multiple-instructions-on-multiple-data (MIMD) programming.
   This type of architecture allows parallel processing.
   The distributed memory is highly scalable.

   Tightly coupled multiprocessor system - Tightly-coupled (shared memory) multiprocessor system
   Multiprocessor system with a shared memory closely connected to the processors.A symmetric multiprocessing system is a system with centralized shared memory called main memory (MM) operating under a single operating system with two or more homogeneous processors.
   There are two types of systems:
   Uniform memory-access (UMA) system
   NUMA system

   Homogeneous multiprocessor system
   Heterogeneous multiprocessor system
   Shared memory multiprocessor system
   Distributed memory multiprocessor system
   Uniform memory access (UMA) system

3. Applications of Multiprocessor –
   As a uniprocessor, such as single instruction, single data stream (SISD).
   As a multiprocessor, such as single instruction, multiple data stream (SIMD), which is usually used for vector processing.
   Multiple series of instructions in a single perspective, such as multiple instruction, single data stream (MISD), which is used for describing hyper-threading or pipelined processors.
   Inside a single system for executing multiple, individual series of instructions in multiple perspectives, such as multiple instruction, multiple data stream (MIMD).

4. Benefits of using a Multiprocessor –
   Enhanced performance.
   Multiple applications.
   Multi-tasking inside an application.
   High throughput and responsiveness.
   Hardware sharing among CPUs.
