The CPU can be further divided into three main parts: the arithmetic logic unit (ALU), the control unit (CU), and what are known as registers. You will look at these first.

1. Registers
   Registers are parts of the CPU that can store data. They operate a little like RAM, but rather than use capacitor-based memory cells, the memory cells are only composed of logic gates. Registers can’t hold as much data as RAM can, but they operate considerably faster.
   There are five different types of register within the CPU.
   \*Accumulator AC Stores the results of calculations
   \*Instruction Register IR Stores the address in RAM of the instruction to be processed
   *Memory Address Register MAR Stores the address in RAM of the data to be processed
   *Memory Data Register MDR Stores the data that is being processed
   \*Program Counter PC Stores the address in RAM of the next instruction
2. The Arithmetic Logic Unit
   The ALU is the core of the CPU. It is made up of all those logic circuits that you have been learning about for the past three weeks.
   The ALU uses these logic circuits to perform a variety of operations. It can perform addition of binary numbers. It can also perform a variety of other arithmetic operations, such as subtraction and incrementation. The ALU can also perform logical operations, such as comparing two binary numbers to see if they are the same or not.
3. The Control Unit
   The control unit decodes what each instruction means, and can then controls how the other components operate. So when the control unit receives an instruction, which is just a binary number, it will then signal what the ALU and memory is supposed to do. It might be that the instruction is to add two numbers together, or it might be that the instruction is to store a number in RAM.
   The control unit also contains a clock. This is a tiny oscillating crystal, which controls the rate at which calculations are performed by the CPU.

Memory
The RAM stores both the instructions that the computer needs to perform, and the data on which to perform it. The idea of storing both data and instructions in the same memory is the basis of what is known as the stored-program computer. When reading from or writing to RAM, two registers are needed: one to store the address in RAM that is being read from or written to, and another register to store the data itself.

Buses
All of these components are connected together by bundles of wires that are collectively known as buses. So there is a bus to carry data, another for addresses, and another for instructions.

Input and Output
Additionally, a computer would usually have some input and output devices that can receive external data and then output the results of the calculation. This could be something as simple as a data connection, or something more complicated such as a keyboard and monitor.
