State Space Model is a mathematical model in control engineering. It is a state-space representation of a physical system of a set of inputs and outputs along with some set of state variables related by first-order differential equations. State variables in this model are a type of variable whose value changes over time and depends on the values that have been given for the input variables. The value of the output variables depends on the value of the state and input variables. Putting a model into state-space representation is the basis for many methods in control analysis and the dynamics process.

The continuous-time form of state-space model of Linear Time-Invariant(LTI) can be represented as below:
X˙= AX+BU
Y= CX+DU
The first equation is the state equation and the second equation is the output equation respectively.
In the above equation,
X is the state vector.
X˙ is the differential state vector.
U is the input vector.
Y is called the output vector.
A is the system matrix

B is the input matrix and C is the output matrix respectively.
D is known as the feed-forward matrix.

Advantages of State Space Techniques
This technique can be used for linear or nonlinear, time-variant or time-invariant systems.
It is easier to apply where Laplace transform cannot be applied.
The nth order differential equation can be expressed as 'n' equation of first order.
It is a time domain method.
As this is time domain method, therefore this method is suitable for digital computer computation.
On the basis of the given performance index, this system can be designed for an optimal condition.
